piGateway/readme.md, before:

This repo contain a port of LowPowerLab RFM69 library, initially targeted at Arduino, to Raspberry Pi.
The Gateway code is a 1:1 replacement from Eric Tsai one to be run dirrectly on Raspberry, removing the need of a dedicated Arduino with Ethernet shield

Connect the RFM69 to the Raspberry PI

Using SPI part of Raspberry expantion port, with the IRQ connected to the pin 22 (GPIO_25)

```
3.3V  17
GND   20
SLCK  23
MISO  21
MOSI  19
NSS   24
DID0  22
```

The layout of the connection header is described at http://www.megaleecher.net/Raspberry_Pi_GPIO_Pinout_Helper
![Alt Text](http://www.megaleecher.net/sites/default/files/images/raspberry-pi-rev2-gpio-pinout.jpg "Raspberry Pinout")

Install Git core, if not already done
```
sudo apt-get install git-core
```
Download the WiringPi latest version
```
git clone git://git.drogon.net/wiringPi
```
A script is provided to easily build it
```
cd wiringPi
./build
```
:warning: Ensure you properly setup the SPI interface, using `raspi-config`


Install Mosquitto and the development libraries - based on http://mosquitto.org/2013/01/mosquitto-debian-repository

```
wget http://repo.mosquitto.org/debian/mosquitto-repo.gpg.key
sudo apt-key add mosquitto-repo.gpg.key
cd /etc/apt/sources.list.d/
sudo wget http://repo.mosquitto.org/debian/mosquitto-wheezy.list
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install mosquitto mosquitto-clients libmosquitto-dev libmosquittopp-dev
```

Grab the gateway
```
git clone git://github.com/abouillot/HomeAutomation
```
Compile the gateway
```
cd HomeAutomation/piGateway
g++ Gateway.c rfm69.cpp -o Gateway -lwiringPi -lmosquitto -DRASPBERRY -DDEBUG
```

You can omit the -DDEBUG part, if you don't want the debug output to be produced

Launch the gateway
```
sudo ./Gateway
```
sudo is required as some of the WiringPi library need it


### Daemon
The Gateway can also be run as a daemon

To build it you can use 
```
make Gatewayd
```

To intsall the Gateway as a service and run it
```
sudo make install
```
This will build it as well, if not already done. The service will be lauch at every startup of the system.

To remove the service you can use the command
```
sudo make uninstall
```


### Send Receive Test
Since I ran into the problem that I couldn't send/receive from my setup, I have added a SenderReceiver script:

compile with
```
make SenderReceiver
```

Run with
```
SenderReceiver -s
```
will send the packets

```
SenderReceiver -r
```

Will receive the packets.

Commit message:

mention that interrupt no longer hard coded

piGateway/readme.md, after:

This repo contain a port of LowPowerLab RFM69 library, initially targeted at Arduino, to Raspberry Pi.
The Gateway code is a 1:1 replacement from Eric Tsai one to be run dirrectly on Raspberry, removing the need of a dedicated Arduino with Ethernet shield

Connect the RFM69 to the Raspberry PI

Using SPI part of Raspberry expansion port, with the IRQ connected to the pin 22 (GPIO_25)

```
3.3V  17
GND   20
SLCK  23
MISO  21
MOSI  19
NSS   24
DID0  22
```

Note that DID0 is no longer hard-coded. Uses value in `rfm69.h`:
```
#define RF69_IRQ_PIN          18
```

The layout of the connection header is described at http://www.megaleecher.net/Raspberry_Pi_GPIO_Pinout_Helper
![Alt Text](http://www.megaleecher.net/sites/default/files/images/raspberry-pi-rev2-gpio-pinout.jpg "Raspberry Pinout")

Install Git core, if not already done
```
sudo apt-get install git-core
```
Download the WiringPi latest version
```
git clone git://git.drogon.net/wiringPi
```
A script is provided to easily build it
```
cd wiringPi
./build
```
:warning: Ensure you properly setup the SPI interface, using `raspi-config`


Install Mosquitto and the development libraries - based on http://mosquitto.org/2013/01/mosquitto-debian-repository

```
wget http://repo.mosquitto.org/debian/mosquitto-repo.gpg.key
sudo apt-key add mosquitto-repo.gpg.key
cd /etc/apt/sources.list.d/
sudo wget http://repo.mosquitto.org/debian/mosquitto-wheezy.list
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install mosquitto mosquitto-clients libmosquitto-dev libmosquittopp-dev
```

Grab the gateway
```
git clone git://github.com/abouillot/HomeAutomation
```
Compile the gateway
```
cd HomeAutomation/piGateway
g++ Gateway.c rfm69.cpp -o Gateway -lwiringPi -lmosquitto -DRASPBERRY -DDEBUG
```

You can omit the -DDEBUG part, if you don't want the debug output to be produced

Launch the gateway
```
sudo ./Gateway
```
sudo is required as some of the WiringPi library need it


### Daemon
The Gateway can also be run as a daemon

To build it you can use 
```
make Gatewayd
```

To intsall the Gateway as a service and run it
```
sudo make install
```
This will build it as well, if not already done. The service will be lauch at every startup of the system.

To remove the service you can use the command
```
sudo make uninstall
```


### Send Receive Test
Since I ran into the problem that I couldn't send/receive from my setup, I have added a SenderReceiver script:

compile with
```
make SenderReceiver
```

Run with
```
SenderReceiver -s
```
will send the packets

```
SenderReceiver -r
```

Will receive the packets.
